>> David Khourshid: The other
one is using refs.
So, using refs is actually good
when we have values that don't
mean to cause a RE render.
So you could think of component
states as being two parts states or
values that should cause RE renders
because they are related to the actual
UI that's being rendered, or
states that is not related to renders.
It's sort of internal and
something that you want to keep internal.
So, for example, this timer,
we might have a timer ID and
a way to set the timer id, and
the reason that we have it external.
Because I know some of you
might be saying, okay,
the proper way to do this is put it in
a useEffect and then clear, but we might
have some way of externally stopping
the timer, and so we have to handle that.
So that might be one instance where you
would see the timer ID being external
outside of a useEffect.
But the idea is the same.
We have this timer ID that has nothing
to do with the rendering at all.
So what should we do instead?
We should put it in a ref, and
that way the logic is a lot simpler and
we're not going to trigger a RE
render when we update that timer ID.
Again, this is one of those things that
might not seem like a problem in your code
base, but it does keep your code a lot
simpler and it is just a better pattern.
You want to limit the amount
of RE renders and
you also want to simplify
the actual logic.
In short,
use refs when you want something.
Refs aren't just for
DOM elements or things like that.
They can also be for any sort of value
that does not need to cause a RE render.
And the third one, this might be
trickier to find, but I promise you,
this is something that's really going
to improve the way that you handle
state in your components, and
that is working with redundant states.
So, just like with derived states,
we want a single source of truth for
all of our data.
And so with derived state,
we saw that in like, okay,
a total can be computed
from a list of items.
But like I said,
sometimes it's not so clear.
So, an example with redundant
state that I see a lot,
let's say that we have a hotel selection.
So we have a bunch of hotels
that we're looking at, and
we want the user to be
able to select a hotel.
What we would typically do is say,
okay, they want to select a hotel.
It makes sense in our minds.
We're going to let them choose a hotel and
then set the selected hotel directly.
The problem with this is that
we are creating redundant data.
So we have a selected hotel,
which is an object that's exactly
the same shape inside
the hotels over here.
And instead we could
actually derive that data.
So I'll just show you how this works.
Copy this over.
All right, so
instead of having the selected hotel,
what I want you to do instead
is have the selected hotel id,
because we could derive
the selected hotel from that.
So if we change this to set selected hotel
id now, now this becomes a string instead.
So we're no longer doing that.
And so
now we could just select the hotel id,
which is a string,
change this to the hotel id, and
then we could apply our first pattern,
which is deriving that state.
So const selectedhotel, and then we could
just find the hotel based on its id.
Now, this is actually really useful
because let's say that you're
selecting a hotel, and you also want
these hotel items to dynamically change.
They might change for some reason.
The price might shoot up, or
a date might become unavailable.
You might be fetching this
data from an external source.
So the problem with selecting
the entire hotel is,
is that because it's no longer
derived from that data,
and instead it's redundant data,
you might be showing stale data.
So that's one of the biggest dangers
of selecting the entire object.
And this just makes the logic,
both reading and updating a lot simpler,
because now all you have
to worry about is an id.